# FinalYR_Project
Smart Street Lighting and Monitoring System based on Sunlight Intensity Detection using IOT and Cloud
The aim of the smart street lighting system using IOT is the preservation of energy by dropping electricity consumption as well as to diminish the work force. Streetlights are the rudimentary part of any city since it eases better night visions, protected roads, and experience to community areas nonetheless it devours a impartially huge amount of electricity. In the labor-intensive streetlight system lights are power-driven from dusk to dawn with thoroughgoing intensity even when there is adequate light available. This energy wastage can be dodged by switching off lights automatically. This can be accomplished using an IOT enabled streetlight managing system. The main purpose of this project is to design an automated street lighting system which senses the sunlight intensity in its surrounds and automatically switches on and off depending on the sunlight intensity. The IOT based smart street lighting system also directs the data from the sensors to an open cloud server for monitoring and visualization. The working principle of the smart street lighting system is wholly controlled by microcontroller. It controls working of all the components. We can program the microcontroller and control the working of all the components to detect the light intensity, switch the lights on and off accordingly and send the data to the cloud server. We also focus on using LED lights instead of the HID lamps to improve the lifespan and reduce energy consumption.
